The most dangerous failure is the quite one.
An agent that auto approves everything will eventually do something catastrophic.
Not because it's malicious, because it's confident.
Models are fluent and decisive.
They propose force pushes, schema drops, curl to shell scripts with the same calm tone they
use to suggest a variable rename.
Over-permission is trusting that tone.
The fix is a three tier permission model.
Read-only actions, file reads, searches, directory listings, auto-approved, no interruption.
State changing actions, edits, API calls, package installs, pause and surface to the
human before executing.
Destructive or irreversible actions, deletes, force pushes, anything touching production,
blocked by default, require explicit opt-in every single time.
The keyword is irreversible.
Ask this about every tool.
If the model calls this on bad data, can I undo it in 30 seconds?
If the answer is no, that tool needs a gate.
If the answer is I can't undo it at all, it needs a hard block.
But tiers only decide what's allowed.
Two more layers decide what happens when something slips through.
Sandbox it.
Run the agent in a box that can only touch its working directory and only reach the domains
you approve.
Everything else is walled off.
Anthropic says this alone cut their permission prompts by around 84%.
Contain the blast radius and you don't need to wet every single move.
Know the real threat.
The nightmare isn't a clumsy agent, it's a hijacked one.
Simon Willison calls it the lethal trifecta.
The moment an agent can read private data in just untrusted content and send data out,
one poisoned webpage or email can turn its own permissions against you.
The fix is to break one leg, cut its ability to phone home or gate the send email and external
right actions specifically.
And keep an undo, plan then apply, approve the diff before it lands like terraform, checkpoints
and git commits so any bad write is one command from gone.